add logistic distribution page (#481)
arviz-devs/preliz: docs/examples/logistic_distribution.md

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---
# Logistic Distribution

> The logistic distribution is a continuous probability distribution with a shape that resembles the normal distribution, but with heavier tails. It is defined by two parameters: the mean ($\mu$) and the scale parameter ($s$). The mean determines the center of the distribution, while the scale parameter controls the steepness of the curve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logistic distribution is a continuous probability distribution with a shape that resembles the normal distribution but with heavier tails. Thus, it is sometimes used as a replacement for the normal when heavier tails are needed. It is defined by two parameters: the mean ($\mu$) and the scale parameter ($s$). The mean determines the center of the distribution, while the scale parameter controls the width.
```

Its cumulative distribution function is the [logistic function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_function), which is characterized by an S-shaped curve (sigmoid curve). It is particularly useful in modeling growth processes, such as population growth, where the rate of growth decreases as the population reaches its carrying capacity. 

> In logistic regression (whether frequentist or Bayesian flavor), the logistic distribution is used to model the probability of a binary outcome based on one or more predictor variables. The logistic function maps any real value into the range [0, 1], making it suitable for binary classification tasks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A logistic regression model is typically characterized by a Bernoulli distribution for the likelihood and the logistic function as the inverse link function. However, logistic regression can also be [described](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_distribution#Logistic_regression) as a latent variable model where the error term follows a logistic distribution.
```

---
tags: [remove-input]
mystnb:
  image:
    alt: Logistic Distribution PDF
---

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import arviz as az
from preliz import Logistic
az.style.use('arviz-doc')
mus = [0., 0., -2.]
ss = [1., 2., .4]
for mu, s in zip(mus, ss):
    Logistic(mu, s).plot_pdf(support=(-5,5))
```

## Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF):

```{code-cell}
---
tags: [remove-input]
mystnb:
  image:
    alt: Logistic Distribution CDF
---

for mu, s in zip(mus, ss):
    Logistic(mu, s).plot_cdf(support=(-5,5))
```

## Key properties and parameters:

```{eval-rst}
========  ==========================================
Support   :math:`x \in \mathbb{R}`
Mean      :math:`\mu`
Variance  :math:`\frac{\pi^2}{3}s^2`
========  ==========================================
```

**Probability Density Function (PDF):**

$$
f(x \mid \mu, s) = 
\frac{e^{-(x-\mu)/s}}{s(1+e^{-(x-\mu)/s})^2}
$$

**Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF):**

$$
F(x \mid \mu, s) = \frac{1}{1 + e^{-(x - \mu) / s}}
$$

```{seealso}
:class: seealso

**Common Alternatives:**

- [Normal Distribution](normal_distribution.md) - Often used as an alternative to the logistic distribution when the tails are not of primary concern.

> - [Cauchy Distribution](cauchy_distribution.md) - Has much heavier tails than the logistic distribution, making it a robust alternative when outliers are a concern.

Reviewer: Add Student's T

**Related Distributions:**

> - [Log-logistic Distribution](log_logistic_distribution.md) - The probability distribution of a random variable whose logarithm has a logistic distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Log-logistic Distribution](log_logistic_distribution.md) - If a random variable is distributed as a logistic, then its exponential is distributed as a log-logistic distribution.
```
